server/README.md, before:

# Server

This server manages the backend for the Open Paper project, which allows users to upload, chat with, annotate, and manage research papers in one place.

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.12 or higher
- PostgreSQL database

## Setup

1. Create a virtual environment (optional but recommended). I'm using [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/), but you can use any virtual environment tool you prefer:
```bash
uv venv --python 3.12
source .venv/bin/activate
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
uv pip install -r pyproject.toml
```

3. Get an API key from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/apikey)

4. Set up environment variables:
```bash
touch .env
```

Add the following environment variables to your `.env` file:
```bash
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://postgres:postgres@localhost:5432/annotated-paper
GEMINI_API_KEY="your_gemini_api_key" # Replace with your actual API key from step 3
```

## Running the Application

To run the application:

1. Setup the DB:

```bash
python3 app/scripts/run_migrations.py
```

2. Start the server:

```bash
python3 -m app.main
```

## API Documentation

FastAPI automatically generates API documentation. Once the application is running, you can access:

- Swagger UI: `http://localhost:8000/docs`
- ReDoc: `http://localhost:8000/redoc`

# Migrations

This project uses Alembic for database migrations. To create a new migration, run:

```bash
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "migration message"
```
To apply the migration, run:

```bash
alembic upgrade head
```
To downgrade the migration, run:

```bash
alembic downgrade -1
```

## Chat with Knowledge Base

We have an `Ask` page, which allows you to ask questions across your entire knowledge base. AI-generated responses come with inline citations which will link to the original papers and show the text citation. Deep-linking is not yet available, but is planned.

The response agent works by sending off an agent with access to a series of research tools:
- `read_file`
- `search_file`
- `view_file`
- `read_abstract`
- `search_all_files`

![knowledge base research diagram](./lr_research_diagram.png)

Multi-paper chat workflow:

```
+----------------+      +-------------------------------------------------+    +-------------------+
|      User      |----->|             FastAPI Server                    |----->|        LLM        |
+----------------+      |       (multi_paper_operations.py)             |      +-------------------+
        ^             |                                                 |              ^
        |             |  1. gather_evidence(question)                   |              |
        |             |     - Iteratively calls LLM with tools:         |              |
        |             |       - search_all_files(query)                 |--------------+
        |             |       - read_file(paper_id, query)              |
        |             |       - ...                                     |
        |             |     - Compacts evidence if it gets too large    |
        |             |                                                 |
        |             |  2. chat_with_papers(question, evidence)        |
        |             |     - Sends evidence and question to LLM        |--------------+
        |             |     - Streams response back to user             |              |
        |             |     - Parses citations from response            |              |
        |             +-------------------------------------------------+              |
        |                           |                                                  |
        +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
                              (Streamed response with citations)
```

Commit message:

Simplify app setup, start using uv & startup scripts. Update Readmes
Use single, standard command setup of app server and jobs services.
- Create start.sh to install dependencies, run migrations and start
  service
- Use standardized `uv run start' command to start each service

Have pyproject.toml be single point of server config by merging mypy
config into it

Update READMEs to indicate the new simplified service startup process

server/README.md, after:

# Server

This server manages the backend for the Open Paper project, which allows users to upload, chat with, annotate, and manage research papers in one place.

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.12 or higher
- [Uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/)
- PostgreSQL database

## Setup

1. Install dependencies
```bash
uv sync
source .venv/bin/activate
```

2. Get an API key from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/apikey)

3. Set up environment variables:
```bash
touch .env
```

Add the following environment variables to your `.env` file:
```bash
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://postgres:postgres@localhost:5432/annotated-paper
GEMINI_API_KEY="your_gemini_api_key" # Replace with your actual API key from step 3
```

## Start the Application

Run the command below to install dependencies, run db migrations and start the app:
```bash
uv run start
```

## API Documentation

FastAPI automatically generates API documentation. Once the application is running, you can access:

- Swagger UI: `http://localhost:8000/docs`
- ReDoc: `http://localhost:8000/redoc`

# Migrations

This project uses Alembic for database migrations. To create a new migration, run:

```bash
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "migration message"
```
To apply the migration, run:

```bash
alembic upgrade head
```
To downgrade the migration, run:

```bash
alembic downgrade -1
```

## Chat with Knowledge Base

We have an `Ask` page, which allows you to ask questions across your entire knowledge base. AI-generated responses come with inline citations which will link to the original papers and show the text citation. Deep-linking is not yet available, but is planned.

The response agent works by sending off an agent with access to a series of research tools:
- `read_file`
- `search_file`
- `view_file`
- `read_abstract`
- `search_all_files`

![knowledge base research diagram](./lr_research_diagram.png)

Multi-paper chat workflow:

```
+----------------+      +-------------------------------------------------+    +-------------------+
|      User      |----->|             FastAPI Server                    |----->|        LLM        |
+----------------+      |       (multi_paper_operations.py)             |      +-------------------+
        ^             |                                                 |              ^
        |             |  1. gather_evidence(question)                   |              |
        |             |     - Iteratively calls LLM with tools:         |              |
        |             |       - search_all_files(query)                 |--------------+
        |             |       - read_file(paper_id, query)              |
        |             |       - ...                                     |
        |             |     - Compacts evidence if it gets too large    |
        |             |                                                 |
        |             |  2. chat_with_papers(question, evidence)        |
        |             |     - Sends evidence and question to LLM        |--------------+
        |             |     - Streams response back to user             |              |
        |             |     - Parses citations from response            |              |
        |             +-------------------------------------------------+              |
        |                           |                                                  |
        +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
                              (Streamed response with citations)
```
